docs: rewrite home page (#2217)
canonical/charmcraft: docs/index.rst

    reference/index
    release-notes/index

> Charmcraft is the official command-line tool for initializing, packaging, and publishing

Reviewer: > official

I may have mentioned this in the original doc, but what do you think about "the command-line tool"? "official" stands out to me.

Author: https://github.com/canonical/charmcraft/pull/2217/commits/ac44634339fedf0cdde5af1972b73df9f4502935

Agreed. I think I actually had it that way initially, but changed it after taking one of your comments on the google draft too literally. My mistake!

:external+juju:ref:`Juju charms <charm>`.

When initializing a project, Charmcraft generates all the necessary files, pre-populated

> with template content, which can be further catered to a web application using

Reviewer 2: I'm finding "can be further catered" a little bit awkward -- I think I'd say "targeted" or something like that. More importantly, I think the relevant bit there is to highlight "kinds of web applications" or "classes...", but @erinecon would know better.

Reviewer 3: I feel like "catered" sounds fine to my ear, but "targeted" also makes sense as that's basically what the extensions do. I have no strong preference and leave it up to @jahn-junior :) Upon a second read-through, maybe we should be more explicit that's it a specific set of wep apps and not just any random web app. Below is a suggestion (probably the linter will hate it, sorry about that):

```suggestion
with template content, which can be further catered to a set of web app frameworks using
```

> with template content, which can be further catered to a web application using
> Charmcraft's array of extensions. Packing a charm is similarly streamlined, as

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with template content, which can be further catered to a web application.
Packing a charm is similarly streamlined, as
```

Working on a web app is a great story to tell! I don't know that new readers will understand what "extension" means in the introduction. My sense  is that it's too early to mention them.

Author: https://github.com/canonical/charmcraft/pull/2217/commits/ac44634339fedf0cdde5af1972b73df9f4502935

I think it's slightly better after the latest commit. I agree that the bit about extensions was a bit forced, so I took it out of that first section? Do we think that they should be worked in somewhere else or is it too far outside of the core story to include here?

> Charmcraft automatically fetches project dependencies and compile any modules before

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Charmcraft automatically fetches project dependencies and compiles any modules before
```

Author: https://github.com/canonical/charmcraft/pull/2217/commits/ac44634339fedf0cdde5af1972b73df9f4502935

Oops, I overlooked this when I updated the first part of the sentence from "will automatically fetch" to "automatically fetches".

> producing the final charm artifact. When it comes time to publish a charm on

Reviewer: ```suggestion
producing the final charm. When it comes time to publish a charm on
```

What are your thoughts on this? Do we assume that readers know what a charm is, and that it's an artifact? The first sentence suggests they're at least somewhat familiar.

Author: I agree that it seems a bit unnecessary given the level of competence we're assuming of the reader. I also don't mind getting to circumnavigate another UK vs. US English issue.

> `Charmhub`_, Charmcraft provides tools for charm authors to register a charm's name,

Reviewer: @tmihoc 

What do you think about "register a charm" as a user story? Is it "charm name" to avoid the confusion about individual charm artifacts vs. the charm as a whole?

For comparison, we use "register a snap" and "register a source" in Snapcraft and other tools.

Reviewer 4: I prefer "register a charm" for consistency - the specific `.charm` file that gets packed is equivalent to a specific `.snap` file, so we should be encouraging use of the term "revision" for it.

upload its associated resources, and release revisions to channels.

Charmcraft simplifies every step of the charming process, enabling charm authors to
bypass boilerplate steps and focus on the contents of their charms. Additionally,
Charmcraft's integration with tools such as :external+ops:doc:`Ops <index>` and Charmhub

> provides charm authors with a truly comprehensive toolkit for charm development.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
provides charm authors with a comprehensive toolkit for charm development.
```

Reviewer 2: "Charmcraft's integration with ... provides charm authors with a comprehensive tool..." sounds odd to me. I mean, together they amount to a comprehensive SDK, but I wouldn't phrase it that way. More importantly, the most relevant first place to mention Ops and Charmhub is in the previous paragraph -- Ops code is part of the template content (and Charmhub is the target of publish, but Charmhub is already mentioned in that paragraph).

Author: https://github.com/canonical/charmcraft/pull/2217/commits/ac44634339fedf0cdde5af1972b73df9f4502935

Thanks for pointing these things out! These are factors that I likely wouldn't have considered if I didn't get another set of eyes on the PR.

I agree on both points. I included a mention of the YAML and Ops template content where I bring up initialization. I also reworded that last sentence in the third paragraph. I think "charm development experience" is more accurate than "toolkit", as I would consider publishing, which Charmhub is an integral part of, to be one of the final steps in development. Please let me know what you think about the change!

For those looking to add their applications to a Juju deployment, Charmcraft will prove

> to be an invaluable tool.

Reviewer: If you need a good example, I think the [Landscape docs](https://ubuntu.com/landscape/docs) put it very solidly.

I think part of the solution could be to borrow the second-half of the last sentence from the previous paragraph and combine it with this one.

> to be an invaluable tool.

Author: @tmihoc I did a rewrite and I'd be curious to hear your thoughts on it. I tried to add a bit more context without needlessly restating what has already been defined in the Juju docs. I felt it necessary for this to say more than "Charmcraft is for charm authors", as in my mind that amounts to the same as saying "cars are for drivers". With that being said, it can always be improved, so I'm open to any and all feedback you may have!

    reference/index
    release-notes/index

> Charmcraft is the official command-line tool for initializing, packaging, and publishing

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Charmcraft is the official command-line tool for initializing, packaging and publishing
```

Author: I'm going to leave the serial commas in until others have had the chance to weigh in, as that is what the current style guide advises. However, I'll be sure to go back and make the changes if the general consensus is that we're sticking with UK English for the time being.

Reviewer: No strong opinions from me on this, but on paper, Charmcraft hasn't made the switch to US English yet.

Reviewer 4: Sticking my nose where it doesn't belong to release a smoke bomb: The only thing wrong with the serial comma is the arguments for it.

Reviewer 2: I think serial commas make sense and aid correct interpretation. I've used systematically throughout our docs, and I'm planning to keep them in Juju docs. So, I'd keep them, but that's me.

:external+juju:ref:`Juju charms <charm>`.

> When initializing a project, Charmcraft generates all the necessary files, pre-populated

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When initializing a project, Charmcraft generates all the necessary files pre-populated
```

Reviewer: I think we should keep this one.

> with template content, which can be further catered to an application using Charmcraft's

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
with template content, which can be further catered to a web app using Charmcraft's
```

Reviewer 4: Gonna have to ask for a reversion here - the extensions handle several types of web apps, but Charmcraft as a whole is more general. A quick example is that Charmcraft also helps charm [databases](https://charmhub.io/postgresql).

Reviewer 4: Maybe "a service" or something like that would be more appropriate?

Reviewer: "services" fits the mould, in my view, but I believe @tmihoc had some better alternatives?

Author: https://github.com/canonical/charmcraft/pull/2217/commits/ac44634339fedf0cdde5af1972b73df9f4502935

I changed it to services for the time being, but am open to any other terms that might be more consistent with the Juju documentation.

> array of extensions. Packing a charm is similarly streamlined, as Charmcraft will
> automatically fetch project dependencies and compile any modules before producing the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
array of extensions. Packing a charm is similarly streamlined, as Charmcraft
automatically fetches project dependencies and compile any modules before producing the
```

compiles any modules before producing the final charm. When it comes time to publish a
charm on `Charmhub`_, Charmcraft provides tools to register a charm, upload its

> associated resources, and release revisions to channels.

Author: https://github.com/canonical/charmcraft/pull/2217/commits/9b3b050a6a4fb334db3f135fcbb06e282c3d7928

While I think there is value in describing the actual processes that go into packing and publishing, I agree that it is too verbose. I'm not entirely satisfied with the abridged version I replaced it with, but I think it conveys the most important bits.

> resources, and release revisions to channels.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
resources and release revisions to channels.
```

Charmcraft simplifies every step of the charming process, enabling charm authors to
bypass boilerplate steps and focus on the contents of their charms. Additionally,
Charmcraft's integration with tools and platforms such as Ops and Charmhub provides

> charm authors with a complete charm development experience.

Author: I see what you're getting at. This actually ties in with a conversation I recently had with another TA, who thought the first two paragraphs seemed backwards. I have made this change in the latest commit, which I think is reasonable due to the somewhat vague boundary between "what a product does" and "what need a product meets".

> Charmcraft's seamless integration with tools such as :external+ops:doc:`Ops <index>` and

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Charmcraft's integration with tools such as :external+ops:doc:`Ops <index>` and
```

Charmcraft offers an efficient and straightforward way for anyone to charm a service for

> their Juju deployment, regardless of whether that service is a simple web application or

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
their Juju deployment, regardless of whether that service is a simple web application (such as Flask, Django, FastAPI, Go) or
```
Nitpick: One last attempt to squeeze in the web app buzzwords.

Author: https://github.com/canonical/charmcraft/pull/2217/commits/9b3b050a6a4fb334db3f135fcbb06e282c3d7928

> a full 5G core network.

Reviewer 2: PS @erinecon 's suggested update makes it more meaningful, though I wouldn't defer mention of the buzzwords to the last paragraph -- it's a crucial bit of what Charmcraft does, so, material for the second paragraph.

> a full 5G core network.

Author: Reworded the final paragraph. Added mention of extensions and supported application classes in second paragraph as well.
